In the previous video we saw how we can overload operators using class member methods.
In this video we learn how to overload operators using nonmember or global functions.
Since these are not member functions we no longer have at this point to referring to the object on the
left hand side.
So since we very often need access to private attributes and the objects you see these non member functions
declared as friend functions of the class.
In many applications this isn't absolutely necessary since we can still use getter methods to access
attribute values.
But as I said you often see them implemented as friends.
I'm going to declare these overloaded operator methods as friends when we head over to the IEEE so in
the case of unity operators a single object does in the parameter list and in the case of a binary operator
two objects are in the parameter list.
So let's overload the minus operator to make a string lowercase as we did in the previous video.
We want to provide the same functionality we did before and our use of the minus operator would look
the same.
Let's see how we can do this using a nonmember function in this slide.
I'm assuming that this function has been declared as a friend to my string class.
Since I'm directly accessing the private attribute as TR.
Notice first that this is not a member function it's a regular C++ global function.
The function returns of my string object by value and its named operator minus and it expects a single
parameter.
In this case RBJ is a mere string object reference.
Now the code is essentially same as it was in the member version except that distrained data is in RBJ
dot as TR rather than in this TR.
We allocate storage on the heap copy the object string data loop through a make the copied string all
lowercase.
Then we create a new my string object using the lowercase string as the initializer deallocate the temporary
storage and return the newly created object.
Of course you can't have both the member and nonmember versions of this overloaded operator at the same
time or the compiler would know which one to use.
You can only have one or the other.
You probably already figured out that overloading binary operators has global functions is basically
the same except that now we have two arguments required by the function.
The first argument is the left hand side object and the second is the right hand side object.
Here you can see some example prototypes for some operators.
Notice that they all have two parameters in the parameter list.
I have named the first L H.S. for left hand side and the second RH has for right hand side that at the
bottom of the slide you can see how these operators can be used and the functions that C++ will call
when it uses them.
Let's see how we can overthrow the equality operator as a nonmember function.
Again I'm accessing a private attribute as TR in my string class so I'm assuming this function is a
friend of my string class.
The code is almost the same as it was for the member version except that now I have an l h s object
instead of the this pointer.
So we compare the left hand side string to the right hand side string using string compare as we did
before.
It's as simple as that.
Finally let's overload the binary plus operator so that we can use it to concatenate to my string objects.
We create Larry Moe and Stooges as my string objects as we did previously.
Now when we use the plus operator notice the methods of the compiler is calling in the comments also
notice that each is called with two arguments as we expect.
Finally remember that with the member version the left side argument had to be an object of the class
type with nonmember functions.
This isn't the case either one or both arguments can be of my string type.
However if you have to string literals that won't work C++ assumes primitive pointer and not objects.
So let's implement concatenation as a non member function and the next slide.
Here you can see that the function operator plus returns and my string object by value.
It also expects to my string objects left hand side and right hand side.
Notice that are both constant references since we don't want to modify them.
The code now is exactly as it was for the member version except that whenever I need the left hand side
object I use L H.S. instead of the this pointer.
That's it again both a member and nonmember versions achieve the desired result.
But remember you can only use one at a time.
Let's head over to the idea and overload some binary operators is non member functions.
OK so we're back in the ID I am in the section 14 workspace and the project is my stream dash operator
dash functions.
This is the project where we're going to implement those three overloaded operators equality operator
the minus operator which makes the string lowercase and the plus operator which concatenates two strings.
And this time we're going to implement them as non member functions are global C++ functions.
First thing we're going to do is we're going to make them friends.
We don't have to make them friends but it's going to be a lot easier to write the code and I'll have
to call those getters all the time so we can do that right in the class.
Remember the class has to grant friendship.
So we'll write the function prototypes here and we'll start them off with a friend and we'll do the
first one the first one is returns a boolean.
The operator is the quality operator and remember now since this is not a member function we need two
parameters.
Right.
This is a binary operator.
So the first one will be Konst my string ref.
L h s for left hand side and Konst my string graph right hand side right.
So that's one function prototype will do the next one for the minus So again friend.
This will return to my string object by value.
The operator overloading is the the minus operator the unary minus and it expects a single my string
ref and we call this will be J.
We can call this anything we like.
I think I called it will be J the slides so I'll call it over here.
And then we've got another operator that want to overload in this case it returns on my string object
by value again and this is the concatenation operator so it's going to be the plus operator and it's
a binary operator so we've got conc to my string ref.
Left hand side and Konst my string ref right hand side.
OK so there we go.
It doesn't really matter where you put these friend declarations in.
Doesn't matter if you put them in the private area the public area doesn't matter.
So there we go.
Unless I have any typos that looks pretty good.
Now what we'll do is we'll go to the mystery of CPV and implement those can really implement them anywhere.
But since they really add to the interface of the class it's common practice to implement them right
in here in the Dotsie BP file.
I'm trying to implement them here at the end so let's do the first one that's to the quality.
And again this is a regular function is not a member function.
So we're going to say bool operator double equal size for the equality is a binary operator so it expects
same prototype we did before.
My string ref.
Left hand side coxed my string ref right hand side.
OK so now we'll write the code we're going to return.
We're going to call stood string compare and what are we comparing We're comparing the left hand sides
string to the right hand side string.
See the difference between this one and the member function is a member function.
We really didn't have this guy here that was the this pointer.
So we did this as TR simply as TR But here we've got those two objects so that's what we're going to
do.
It's when you compare this to zero.
And that's what we're going to return.
And that should be done.
Great.
Now let's do the make lower case
notice again this is not a member function if it was a member function it would look something like
that right.
It's not this is just a regular global function.
So here's make lowercase make lowercase returns of my string object by value it's operator minus the
unit operator overloading.
And it's it's it's unir it is going to be one parameter in this parameter list and it's going to be
my string ref and we'll just call this Scoby Jaffee that's what I call it in the slides and I'll stick
to that name.
That's it.
Now let's write the code again again it's the same code we had before.
We need a buffer area.
And what we're going to do is we're going to allocate a new array of characters in that buffer area.
How big.
Well we're going to ask sturdiest you Ireland to give us the length of again what is this now.
It's RBJ got asked here.
Right now we have access to that because we're a friend and we're going to add the one for the string
Terminator.
Now that we've allocated the space we're going to stray copy into the buffer from RBJ asked here again
that function copies one character at a time and then when it hits the Terminator copies that as well
and stops.
That's it.
Now we'll loop through just like we did before.
So we'll go from an unsigned int equals zero.
While it is less than say that string length of fuf
by one
and for each iteration what we'll do is we'll just simply say buff Sabai equals we'll call stood to
lower
and we'll make the Buff's of a lower.
That just makes it a lower case character.
Right so now we've got what we need to build our temporary object temporary to this function that we're
going to return.
So my string temp will initialize it from buff it will return buff sorry little Richard.
Now obviously we allocated space in here which we're done with so we need to delete but that way we
don't leak memory.
And I think that should do it again if we have some typos I'll fix them once I compile.
And then the last one we'll do is the concatenation.
So now let's implement this one.
It's going to return to my string object.
The operator overloading is the addition plus operator which means concatenation in this context.
And we've got a binary operator right so we've got those two objects again in the parameter list.
The left hand side and the right hand side both references.
OK so now what do we do.
Well let's allocate the space.
Remember the space needs to be big enough to hold both those strings.
We're going to concatenate.
So we'll just simply say char buffer again and we'll create a new character array.
How big is it.
Well it's the length of the left hand side string plus the length of the right hand side string plus
one.
Now we've got enough space to put both strings in there.
Now what we do is we just copy the first one over the string copy into buff from the left hand side
object.
And then we concatenate on the end of that using string cat from the right hand side object.
Again we've got what we need to create our object.
We're going to return now.
So I will create my string and we'll just call it tempo and we'll initialize it with buff and then you
get rid of that space in there.
Perfect.
Again we return temp but before we do that we've got to be sure that we delete the buffer so we don't
leak memory.
And that should do it.
So let's give this a compile and we get a compiler error here if I need one more colon there.
And I've got an extra parentheses.
See what else we have here.
Char
and that should do it.
There's my run.
So what we're doing is recreating a string Larry which is Larry with an uppercase.
Ellen we're displaying it.
There you can see it then we're using the unary minus operator right here and we're negating Larry what
that means is just make Larry with all lower case letters.
And in this case we're assigning right back to LARRY.
So what happened here is that you can see Larry print out right here and we using move assignment.
So there he is got a lowercase l now and then we've got some some comparison operators that we're testing
out here.
So Larry right now is Larry and Moe is Mo are they the same.
No.
Is there the same as stooge.
Yes because I assigned Larry to students you can see so they're the same.
And then we've got a few more test cases here which are real simple here Larry plus smoe displays Stooges
is Larry plus Moe.
So when I display stooges you see here Larry Moe right no space between them because I didn't provide
one here two stooges as Moe Plus space plus Larry and I display that.
There you see Moe in a space and Larry.
And then finally we're going to change some of these concatenates is so we have mo space Larry space
curly and we've got Moe Larry and Curly notice Larry still has that little lower case L and Curly is
a C style string and it works just fine.
OK.
There you go you'll have some more time to practice these in the challenge exercise where you'll be
able to do some some overloaded member functions and some overloaded operators as member functions and
others as nonmember functions.